===== PAGE 1 =====
Self-Training Small Reasoning Models
1 Introduction and Motivation
The goal of this project is to develop effective and efficient deep learning algorithms for language, visual,
and multimodal reasoning through distillation. Distillation is a form of transfer learning where a smaller
specialized model is trained to replicate the behaviors of a larger model. Existing approaches to distilla-
tion utilize architecturalCITEand optimizationCITEmethods to enable distillation for languageCITE,
visualCITE, and multimodal dataCITE. Traditionally, these methods have been applied to tasks such
as language understanding, visual classification, and other tasksCITE. However, there is an increasing
indication that they should be extended to better support more complex reasoning and advanced artificial
intelligence tasks. The technical need is important due to the proliferation of agentic systems. In addition to
improving their efficient use, efficient methods to tune and adjust their behaviors are critically needed.
Modern artificial intelligence (AI) and agentic systems fundamentally rely on a large language model
or multimodal large language model. This is enabled through the use of a harness, which provides a soft-
ware defined method to enable interaction with uesrs and the agent’s environment. The harness then utilizes
a LLM backend to reason, make predictions, and decide future actions based on the information and af-
fordances provided by the agentic harness. Using this architecture, modern AI systems are demonstrating
transformational capabilities in society.
Popular benchmark tasks include language-controlled computer use, robotic manipulation, and others.
However, due to the high computational and data costs associated with modifying a LLM backend, cus-
tomizations are challenging and limited to techniques such as due to the computational and data require-
ments for running and modifying the LLM backend, at is core, agentic systems still rely on the foundational
capabilities of the LLM.
Currently, the most performant LLMs are built using billions of parameters. On some tasks, they can
exceed human performanceprovide examples. However, on many reasoning focused tasks, they do not
perform as stronglyCITE, performance benefits from scaling also appears to be plateauingCITE. Further-
more, due to their scale in terms of both data and compute requirements, training these models directly is
out of reach for many researchers. Fortunately, there is evidence that small parameter models can solve
problems that were initially only demonstrated on larger models. While there are certainly many factors
which can lead to these observations, it indicates that parameter count is not the sole determinant of reason-
ing ability. The core goal of this proposal is to improve the intelligenceindirectproperties of LLMs without
relying on scaling properties.
To address this fundamental question, we propose to build small models with the same capabilities as
larger models. We will tackle this by looking at distillation and understand how smaller models can replicate
the capabilities of larger models. This will allow us to understand what are effective mechanisms, such as
optimization or architectural enhancements, which enable this capability. This will enable us to develop
new interpretable insights by understanding the effects that the proposed methods will have. Furthermore,
the benefits of building smaller models will provide efficiency improvements for many resource-constrained
compute settings.
Intellectual Merit
The proposed The proposed foundational advancements in generative representation learning of multimodal
video has transformative and far-reaching implications. For example, these models can be used in new
1

===== PAGE 2 =====
vision-language-action models to benefit improved understanding of the physical world. This can support
robotic (embodied or non-embodied) integration in society. By enabling integration, robots can help do
household chores, support decision making, or automate mundane tasks. However, current large visual
models are limited in their capabilities compared to large language models. For example, they cannot
properly understand physical properties. In addition to these, video models are extremely expensive to
train. In this proposal, we provide a potential solution towards addressing these issues. The goal is for the
outcomes of our research to lead to broader scientific and interdisciplinary investigations into multimodal
visual reasoning.
We propose multiple innovations towards this goal. First, we extend existing diffusion and flow based
generative methods to use lower complexity attention that is customized for video-based tasks. The at-
tention mechanism in the network architecture is core to the what enables the algorithms of today and is
extremely computationally expensive. Second, we take a first principles approach towards developing op-
timization methods for these diffusion and flow based methods. This will be used to enhance the learned
representations in an improved and more computationally efficient manner. Lastly, we extend these efficient
representation learning advancements into the multimodal domain to enable a foundational model that is
trained and designed for multimodal understanding, reasoning, and use. Our work will be thoroughly veri-
fied according to machine learning best practices. Our source code along with weights will be open sourced
following responsible AI use standards.
2 Background
Generative Models:Generative models (i.e., deep learning models that can generate open-ended responses)
have rapidly increased in usage recently, largely driven by LLMs [86, 7]. High quality generative text
models were first widely demonstrated by OpenAI’s ChatGPT (which incorporated instruction tuning) [55].
Generative models have grown beyond simple question answering to applications such as coding support
[17, 65, 63, 75, 34], complex task following [70, 86, 84], and conducting research [7, 20]. Newer generative
models have started to incorporate visual and audio modalities. For example, they have been implemented
to improve gaming frame rates [47, 50, 89], upscale visuals [80, 88, 49], and generate podcasts [57]. A
popular example in proposed morphing pixels to generate video from images (e.g., making a talking Mona
Lisa) [64].
Attention:The concept of attention in machine learning has been around for some time [4] and was initially
applied effectively on text datasets. This served as the foundation for the transformer architecture [69] that
is widely used as a general feature extractor today. This simple intuition of how much to emphasize each
feature vector, has served as the foundation for the AI advancements we see today in foundational models
such as large language models (LLMs) and multimodal LLMs. In addition to their use in foundational
models, special customizations and combinations with existing neutral architectures have been applied to
many language, visual, and multimodal problems. Attention and transformers have been applied to multiple
vision problems such as in image classification [18] and action recognition [52]. The basic functionality
is to apply layers of self-attention, on sequential representations. However, the a primary concern is its
high computational complexity ofOpn 2q. There have been several well-known works in developing a
generalizable linear-complexity attention module. For example, [36] examined how the attention mechanism
is essentially similar to a similarity function and simplifies the computation in this manner. Mamba[23],
also frequently referred to as State Space Model (SSM) attention, takes advantage of this and incorporates
additional system level enhancements. These have also been applied to a variety of applications such as 3D
vision [38].
Knowledge Distillation:Knowledge distillation approaches can be broadly categorized into off-policy
2

===== PAGE 3 =====
and on-policy distillations. Standard methods generally operate via off-policy distillation, where the student
learns from the teacher’s logits on fixed, ground-truth datasets [27, 62, 77, 39, 76]. While efficient, this setup
suffers from exposure bias [2], as the student never comes across its own incorrect generation during training.
Conversely, on-policy approaches [1, 24, 43, 41] mitigate this training-inference mismatch by fine-tuning
the student-generated output (SGO) sequences, but these methods suffer from self-generative inefficiency
during training. Feature-based KD attempts to align the intermediate representations of the student and
teacher directly. FitNets [61] introduced regression losses to match the hidden states of intermediate layers.
Subsequent works have proposed aligning attention maps [85, 71]. Recently, works [66, 21] proposed to
distill the intermediate features from teacher to student using the asymmetric Kullback-Leibler divergence
LKLpp||qθqmetric, which undervalues the matching of low-probability regions.
Efficient Machine Learning:Distillation methods fall under
3 Research Plan
Company Arch. Size Arena Elo SWE-bench (%) MMMU Pro (%) MMLU Pro (%) GSM8K (%)
Proprietary (Closed weights, closed source, API-only)
Anthropic Dense Undisclosed 1503 93.9 92.7 89.5 96.4
OpenAI Dense Undisclosed 1488 88.7 94.0 92.5 97.1
Google MoE Undisclosed 1493 80.6 83.9 91.0 86.2
Meta Dense Undisclosed 1491 77.4 80.4 – 77.7
Open Weights (Permissive and Restrictive)
Alibaba / Qwen MoE 397B (17B act.) – 76.2 86.0 88.5 95.9
MiniMax MoE 230B (10B act.) – 80.2 – 88.0 –
DeepSeek MoE 1.6T (49B act.)„1460 80.6 – 87.5 95.1
Moonshot AI MoE„1T (32B act.)„1460 80.2 79.4 87.1 97.3
Meta / Llama MoE 400B (17B act.) – – 73.4 85.5 –
Google / Gemma Dense 31B – – 76.9 85.2 95.9
Fully Open Source (Weights + training scripts + datasets public)
AllenAI / OLMo 2 Dense 32B„1200 – –„82.0 78.8
AllenAI / OLMoE MoE 7B (1B act.) – – –„58.0 68.2
Table 1: Comparison of open source and closed open weight models. A clear separation exists between their
performance. . Values obtained from trackers and leaderboards.
PIs related prior work:The proposed efforts directly leverage the PI’s past work. PI Ding has conducted
work on incorporating a Mamba-based method (one type of linear-attention method) into learning 3D rep-
resentations [38] published at International Conference on Learning Representations. This also includes
additional work [37] and background in computer vision and machine learning [53, 14]. PIs have also done
extensive work in the multimodal space [15, 16, 35, 51] and flow-based and differential-equation-related
approaches [6, 82] as well as the previously mentioned [11, 26, 13, 56, 81].
3.1 Thrust 1: Distillation
Off-policy, On-Policy, dense to sparse, sample efficiency, multimodal, agentic distillation
3.2 Aim 1: Efficient Intra-Family Distillation
This aim establishes a solid foundation to enable novel advancements to distillation methodology. We
propose multiple advancements to the a constrained form of the distillation problem setup, which assumes3

===== PAGE 4 =====
that the teacher and student come from the same family. For example, distilling from a Llama model with
6.7B parameters to a 1.1B parameter Llama model. Distillation in such settings will help to improve the
performance as well as improve model efficiency. Subsequent aims will relax this assumption to support
additional enhancements. A canonical baseline approach for distillation typically involves three broad tasks.
It is usually, but not necessarily, in order and can also be mixed with each other or partially skipped. First
a strong teacher is chosen which is fine-tuned to a specific task of interest. Second, the teachers knowledge
is transferred to the student. Lastly, additional fine-tuning is conducted on the student independent of the
teacher. We discuss advancements and investigations for each of these components below.
3.2.1 Weight initialization
A baseline way to start the training of a neural network is to initialize the weights randomly [27] or by train-
ing the student with an unsupervised objective [68]. However, this approach requires training the student
model from scratch which requires a large amount of compute and is typically not used in practice except
as a baseline comparison. Many works have explored how to initialize student weights based on teacher
weights. For example, the student can copy a subset of the layers directly [72, 72]. Another way to view this
is through a pruning approach [78]. However, these approaches limit the adjustments possible such as requir-
ing the similar latent space shape. Recently, it has been shown that it is possible to copy a subset of teacher
layers as well as element weights to match a smaller student architecture during initialization [9]. This
technique was demonstrated to be effective on visual features, therefore, an interesting research challenge
remains on how similar approaches can be made to work with language features since they are fundamen-
tally different in the representation space. Instead of selection based copying, factorization based methods
enables a transformation into different representation dimensions [8, 42, 83, 46]. Distillation, however, is
not limited to just creating a student which is smaller than a teacher model. Expanding model capacity has
been demonstrated to be highly beneficial, several methods have explored how to widen or deepen a trained
network. This can be done by expanding the width via random copying of neurons [10], or by stacking
multiple small models together [22]. The proposed work will examine how all these methods of initializa-
tion can interfere with the distillation process. For example, each initialization method introduces inductive
biases into the student model. We will seek to understand how initialization can be improved to accelerate
model training and to improve student model performance.
3.2.2 Student-teacher alignment
Once the weights are initialized, the student will then learn to align its outputs with the teacher responses.
This is typically done by defining an optimization objective to constrain the distance between the student
and the teacher outputs. There are many forms of this distance, For example, the student can learn to align
directly to the teacher’s outputs via a cross-entropy loss:
Lhard “ ´ 1
T
Tÿ
t“1
Kÿ
k“1
˜yt
k logp spk|xq
where˜yis a one-hot label from the teacher, andkis the student output probability. This is also known as
hard-label alignment [27], which is useful for example in settings where teacher logits are unavailable [73,
67] or due to model structure differences [39]. However, using hard labels alone potentially requires a
large amount of data to properly transfer knowledge [25]. To simplify the process, many works look at a
slightly simpler approach where the teacher model logits are available for distillation. The logits provide
a distribution over the possible outputs which can be aligned using Kullback-Liebler divergence or a L2
distance [3]. Many works focus on how we can most appropriately align the token distributions of the
4

===== PAGE 5 =====
teacher and student. For example, analysis has looked at how forward KL loss tends to cover all modes of
the distribution (i.e. mean seeking) which may be detrimental for the performance for small models [30, 24].
Optimal transport based objectives can also be defined to support the knowledge transfer process.
If model weights are available, then the KD problem can be relaxed. In addition to defining an op-
timization objective on the output layer, intermediate representation transfer can also help accelerate the
representation learning process. Exploiting intermediate representations is useful for many reasons, for
example, logit lens and linear probing techniques have long shown that intermediate layers provide inter-
pretable value. Therefore, it would make sense to understand how this interpretability can benefit KD. The
proposed work will explore how we can develop techniques to transfer intermediate layer dynamics and
understanding during distillation. We will do this by understanding the latent data properties and look at
how objectives and transformations
3.2.3 Post-distillation fine-tuning
Once the knowledge transfer process from the teacher to student is complete, many techniques incorporate
an additional fine-tuning process. For example, the student can be further fine-tuned on the task-specific
dataset. Additionally, many generative or decoder-only models typically involve a RL fine tuning process
to more specifically align task outputs to human preferences. However, in many scenarios, such preference
tuning datasets may not be available. LLM-based preference feedback has been shown to be beneficial for
this process where alignment data for specific tasks are unavailable. This LLM feedback can be incorporated
into the tuning process via a DPO objective for example. A major challenge is that the feedback is noisy and
can lead to hallucinations. We propose to look at how we can improve LLM-based feedback by accounting
for noise. We will also look at how to reduce hallucinations by adding additional verification steps for the
feedback signal.
3.3 Evaluation Methodology
The dataset and evaluation methodology will be common to all proposed tasks. The discussion builds on
Aim 1, but can be altered to suit the subsequent aims.
3.3.1 Baseline methods
Our comparison spans standard, including Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT) and Standard KD (Forward KL) [27],
alongside Sequence-Level KD (SeqKD) [39]. To analyze the impact different loss formulations, we also
benchmark against advanced divergence objectives: the mode-seeking Reverse KL (RKL), symmetric met-
rics like Jeffreys Divergence (JD) [31] and Jensen-Shannon Divergence (JSD), and the hybrid Adaptive KL
(AKL) [77], which dynamically balances mean- and mode-seeking behaviors. We will also integrate our
understanding derived from foundational evaluations into end-to-end approaches. We will also compare
against a mix of on-policy and off-policy methods. In off-policy distillation, static sequences are first gen-
erated by a teacher. By optimizing on static sequences, these methods suffer from exposure bias [2]: a
distribution mismatch arises because the model is trained on ground-truth sequences but evaluated on its
own autoregressive generations [24]. This increased exposure bias directly degrades the generation capabil-
ities of language models [2]. In contrast, on-policy distillation [24, 1] mitigates this by training the student
modelq θ on its own self-generated responsesyfor given promptsx. However, this effectiveness comes
at a high computational cost; the generation process introduces significant GPU overhead and slows down
training [43, 41].
We will also compare our methods against framework-level or end-to-end methods such as MiniLLM,
5

===== PAGE 6 =====
DistillLLM.CITE. We will also incorporate different LLMs into the training pipeline. We expect to per-
form most experiments using Gemma, Llama, Olmo, Qwen, Deepseek as these models have open weights.
We will additionally incorporate closed source models such as those form OpenAI and Anthropic for eval-
uations, as feedback, and as real-world black-box evaluation.
3.3.2 Datasets
Our evaluation spans five diverse benchmarks: a held-outDollyEvalset (500 samples), the user-centric
SelfInst[73], and the reasoning-focusedVicunaEval[87]. Additionally, we evaluate long-form generation
capabilities using the response subsets ofS-NI[74] andUnNI[28].
3.3.3 Metrics
We assess the quality of model-generated responses using Rouge-L (R-L) [48]. Prior studies [74] have
demonstrated that Rouge-L correlates well with human evaluation for large-scale instruction-following
tasks, making it a suitable proxy for measuring generation precision and recall against ground truth ref-
erences. We estimate the semantic similarity with the ground truth using GPT-4o-mini [29] as the judge and
the SBERT score using Sentence-BERT models [60]. The GPT-4o-mini evaluation prompts are modified
from prior work [87].
3.4 Aim 2: Multimodal Large Language Model Distillation
In this aim, we will explore how to distill MLLM models. Large language models
3.5 Aim X: Multitask distillation under data constraints
There are many circumstances where we wish to preserve performance of multiple tasks or datasets. For
example, it is beneficial to maintain safety guardrails of a model while improving task performance. We
will investigate how we can do this. One naive approach is to use multiple datasets depending on the tasks
of interest. In practice, not all data available for teacher models may be available for distillation. Therefore,
naive approaches will be limited due to data availability uniformity. Additionally, it has been shown pre-
viously that prompt templates can have an impact on model performanceCITEwhich raises fundamental
questions about the behavior of how models learn. We will examine how these training and optimization
effects transfer into a distillation setting. We will analyze attention weights of different prompting and learn-
ing scenarios and create visualizations using t-SNE and other projection methods. We will explore methods
of sample selection, augmentation, network customizations, and customized optimization objects can be
used to overcome inductive biases in multitask distillation settings.
The typical way in
3.5.1 Template mixing in distillation
3.5.2 Few-shot distillation
3.6 Aim X: Distillation across model families
Distillation across families of models, for example from Qwen to Llama, is important since the models
demonstrate superior capabilities on different tasks. However, transferring across model family is challeng-
ing for several major reasons:
6

===== PAGE 7 =====
• Tokenizer mismatch: Tokenization is required part of the pipeline which breaks down raw data into
chunks. These chunks can represent whole words. Qwen for example, uses BPE-based [59] tokeniza-
tion, while Gemma uses SentencePiece [44] tokenization.
• V ocabulary: Special tokens, such as templates, for each language model and accommodations for
language (i.e. mandarin vs english) and task-specific optimizations can change the vocabulary size,
and allocation.
• Architectural choices: Even if architectures are aligned in using transformers, the hidden state, alyer
counts, positional encoding, data and other factors all change the learned representation. This can be
complicated by the use of different attention mechanisms [23, 58] or use of sparse mixture-of-experts
models for example.
• Policy: Policy choices in model training, such as what is considered safe or non-safe in responses,
will need to be addressed during distillation. Where these boundaries lie creates complications in
formulating an appropriate distillation objective.
The above provides a non-exhaustive list of possible challenges when conducting cross-family distillation.
We will address these challenges and more in our investigations of cross-family distillation. This outcomes
of this research aim will be to develop a fundamental understanding for how we can transfer knowledge
across families of models.
To tackle these problems, we will look at how intermediate and final output representations can be
transformed. We will first do this through a rigorous unsupervised representation analysis of the data and
corresponding representations. We will also examine and evaluate how theoretical understanding of repre-
sentations can inform the design of novel distillation methods. For example, many methods rely on mini-
mizing Mean Squared Error (MSE),L M SE “ }W shp ´h qθ }2, whereW s projects the teacher hidden state
hp to the space of student hidden stateh qθ [61, 33]. However, because MSE assumes an isotropic em-
bedding space where all error directions are equal and high-dimensional language embedding spaces are
highly anisotropic [19]; identical MSE values can yield vastly different probability divergences depending
on whether the error projects onto high-probability or low-probability tokens atpplqpy|xq. This suggests that
we should be using other objectives to minimize the semantic mismatch such as through KL via a projection
layer. Using these understanding, and other properties such as asymmetric loss properties or layer-wise
representation properties [54], we will design novel distillation methods.
3.6.1 Aim X: Architecture-agnostic distillation
While transformers [69] have enabled much of the modeling capabilities of today’s algorithms, variations
have been built on top of these methods to improve their model capabilities (e.g. Mixture-of-Experts [12,
59,?, 40, 32]) or improve their efficiency (e.g. state space models [23] and RNN-based attention [5, 58]).
Development of generalized understanding and techniques that can enable transfer between different model
architectures if valuable. However, it is currently an open research question as to how distillation can best
occur due to rapid pace at which novel architectures are developed as well as the underlying layer and
representation properties of different methods. The outcome of this aim will be a method that can enable
distillation across models with different underlying attention and representation mechanisms. We propose
to tackle this by studying how we can learn projections to aid in the transformation between neural networks
with different
7

===== PAGE 8 =====
3.7 Thrust: Distillation and Agentic Integration of distilled models into agentic pipelines
The LLM is the backbone of an AI Agent and is fundamentally what is relied on by the source code or
harness to enable much of the automation capabilities we see today in OpenAI or Anthropic’s systems.
Therefore, a better or improved LLM would naturally lead to improvements in Agent behaviors. This Aim
will develop a rigorous method to evaluate distilled models performance in agentic systems, and to develop
an understanding for the improvements that are needed. This creates a synergistic feedback that enables
iterative distillation improvement. We will use multiple evaluation environments and benchmarks. We will
focus on benchmarks which provide a level of standardization for the harness. However, we will also make
use of publicly available harnesses for additional benchmarks. SWE-bench [34] is a benchmark to evaluate
whether agents can solve GitHub issues. Each task is built from an issue and a pull request, the harness
applies a LLM generated patch and runs test for execution-based evaluation. OSWorld [79] is a scalable
real-computer environment for multimodal agents, supporting task setup, execution-based evaluation and
interactive learning in operating systems. BrowserGym [45] standardizes the observation and action space
for browser-based agent interaction and evaluation. Using these benchmark environemtns, we will compare
the efficacy of distilled models against state-of-the-art distillation methods as well as non-distilled variants.
Ethical considerations
While the goals of the proposed effort is to enable generative methods for beneficial use cases, the PIs
acknowledge that any general purpose generative AI, ours included, have the potential to cause harm. While
we believe that the ultimate benefits far out weigh any harms that may be caused, the PIs will follow the best
possible practices of the industry for responsible AI development during development and dissemination of
the research. These include disclaimers and discussions of ethics in all publications. In addition to this, we
will follow and continuously assess the risk of our research output in accordance with federal guidelines
such as those provided in NIST’s AI Risk Management Framework. For any high-quality models developed
which have the most potential for harms, we will require credentialed access to verified academic and
industry researchers. Furthermore, they must also agree to a responsible AI license. We will continuously
monitor the developments around our model and methodology to ensure that harms are minimized. For our
publicly released code, we will provide documentation that will discuss how our code can be modified by
others to include protective measures such as watermarking.
4 Integration into Education
In addition to the impactful scientific advancements that can be made if our project is successful, this project
would support the training of two doctoral students. Additionally, it is the intention of the PI to help the
broader scientific communities at his institution. This includes understanding of generative models, natural
language processing, and multimodal machine learning. Towards this, we will integrate our findings to
support the generative AI education experience at our respective institutions. Two additional educational
goals are discussed.
Workforce training in generative AI across campus and communitiesAI is at the core of what will
impact society in the near future. It is therefore critical that technical innovations are taught readily manner
and is accessible to a large audience. Current students at the institution of both the PI predominantly learn
machine learning and AI through discriminative techniques. For example, topics in data science or machine
learning predominantly discuss classifiers such as support vector machines. The proposed topics of training
and distilling a multimodal model will be integrated into the curriculum. PI Ding has taught Advanced
8

===== PAGE 9 =====
Machine Learning, NLP and Data Science in the past, and will incorporate visual generation into those and
similar courses. In the past, the has recently highly positive reviews. This provides a strong indication for
successful implementation of the proposed educational activities.
Integration of Undergraduate Students in ResearchThe PI has hosted multiple undergraduate students
in his labs. The University of Tennessee Knoxville provide mechanisms to support the inclusion of under-
graduate researchers. This will directly benefit the supported graduate students, giving them an opportunity
to mentor others. Additionally, it will provide a well-defined project mechanism to support undergraduate
researchers. It is the intention of the PI to recruit one undergraduate student to be involved in the project.
In the past, PI Ding has had success through these research mechanisms in recruiting domestic doctoral
students, as well as enabling pre-doctoral students to make significant contributions to top tier publications
[38, 53].
5 Project Management and Timeline
The project is planned for All PIs will share responsibility for coordinating research activities, maintaining
effective communication among institutional partners, and ensuring steady progress toward project goals.
Each PI will provide scientific leadership, mentor students, and oversee timely completion of assigned re-
search milestones as outlined in Figure 1. Our proposed project will span three years.
Figure 1: Planned Project Timeline
For each PI, meetings with students will take place weekly for progress, mentorship, and research sup-
port. Two doctoral students will be supported as part of this project. Joint meetings between the PIs and
their respective students will take place every two weeks via Microsoft Teams. Our teams will maintain
private GitHub repositories for research code and use Overleaf for joint publications. In addition to this,
multiple sources of secure private cloud services are available to share data and other research documents.
Broader Impacts
Education and workforce development:This project will support the training of two PhD graduate stu-
dents and provide an updated curriculum on generative AI development. The proposed tasks will also
enable opportunities for undergraduate and masters research participation. The research is core to NSF and
national security goals of advancing strategic US competitiveness, specifically in AI and accelerating AI
innovationAI action plan citation. The education and development of workforce is a critical piece towards
this goal.
Addressing scaling requirements of AI:Computational requirements of to deploy AI at scale requires
significant energy, computational, and costly resources. The proposed efforts will lead to efficient and
effecitve methods which will directly reduce scaling limits for broadly deploying AI.
9

===== PAGE 10 =====
Generalization to applied machine learning challenges and interdisciplinary research:The proposed
tasks are foundational to many machine learning tasks. For example, if successful our methods can be more
readily integrated into vision-language-action [90] models to study physical world understanding. This
would support effective and efficient operation in edge settings. Another area is for example in building
personalized and local assistants. This would help protect privacy of end users.
Prior NSF Support
PI has not received direct NSF funding and would be a first-time NSF awardee. However, PI has substan-
tial experience contributing to externally funded research which has resulted in numerous publications at
premiere venues.
10

===== PAGE 11 =====
References
[1] Rishabh Agarwal, Nino Vieillard, Yongchao Zhou, Piotr Stanczyk, Sabela Ramos Garea, Matthieu
Geist, and Olivier Bachem. On-policy distillation of language models: Learning from self-generated
mistakes. InThe Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations, 2024.
[2] Kushal Arora, Layla El Asri, Hareesh Bahuleyan, and Jackie Chi Kit Cheung. Why exposure bias
matters: An imitation learning perspective of error accumulation in language generation. InFindings
of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2022, pages 700–710, 2022.
[3] Jimmy Ba and Rich Caruana. Do deep nets really need to be deep? InAdvances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 2014.
[4] Dzmitry Bahdanau, Kyunghyun Cho, and Yoshua Bengio. Neural machine translation by jointly learn-
ing to align and translate.arXiv preprint arXiv:1409.0473, 2014.
[5] Maximilian Beck, Korbinian P ¨oppel, Markus Spanring, Andreas Auer, Oleksandra Prudnikova,
Michael Kopp, G ¨unter Klambauer, Johannes Brandstetter, and Sepp Hochreiter. xlstm: Extended
long short-term memory.Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 37:107547–107603,
2024.
[6] Elena Celledoni, Brynjulf Owren, Lars Ruthotto, and Tianjiao Nicole Yang. Mixed precision training
of neural odes.American Control Conference (ACC), 2026.
[7] Hui Chen, Miao Xiong, Yujie Lu, Wei Han, Ailin Deng, Yufei He, Jiaying Wu, Yibo Li, Yue Liu,
and Bryan Hooi. Mlr-bench: Evaluating ai agents on open-ended machine learning research. In
Proceedings of the Thirty-Ninth Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS),
2025.
[8] Patrick H. Chen, Hsiang-Fu Yu, Inderjit S. Dhillon, and Cho-Jui Hsieh. Data-aware low-rank com-
pression for large nlp models. InAdvances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2021.
[9] Tianlong Chen, Jonathan Frankle, Shiyu Chang, Sijia Liu, Yang Zhang, Michael Carbin, and
Zhangyang Wang. Initializing models with larger ones. InInternational Conference on Learning
Representations, 2024.
[10] Tianqi Chen, Ian Goodfellow, and Jonathon Shlens. Net2Net: Accelerating learning via knowledge
transfer. InInternational Conference on Learning Representations, 2016.
[11] Yu Chen, Wei Deng, Shikai Fang, Fengpei Li, Nicole Tianjiao Yang, Yikai Zhang, Kashif Rasul,
Shandian Zhe, Anderson Schneider, and Yuriy Nevmyvaka. Provably convergent schr ¨odinger bridge
with applications to probabilistic time series imputation. InInternational Conference on Machine
Learning, pages 4485–4513. PMLR, 2023.
[12] DeepSeek-AI. DeepSeek-V3 Technical Report, 2024.
[13] Wei Deng, Yu Chen, Nicole Tianjiao Yang, Hengrong Du, Qi Feng, and Ricky TQ Chen. Reflected
schrz” odinger bridge for constrained generative modeling.arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.03228, 2024.
[14] Manish Dhakal, Venkat R Dasari, Raj Sunderraman, and Yi Ding. Gft: Graph feature tuning for
efficient point cloud analysis. InIEEE/CVF Winter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision,
2026.
[15] Yi Ding, Brandon Huynh, Aiwen Xu, Tom Bullock, Hubert Cecotti, Matthew Turk, Barry Giesbrecht,
and Tobias H¨ollerer. Multimodal classification of eeg during physical activity. In2019 International
Conference on Multimodal Interaction, pages 185–194, 2019.
[16] Yi Ding, Jacob You, Tonja-Katrin Machulla, Jennifer Jacobs, Pradeep Sen, and Tobias H ¨ollerer. Im-
pact of annotator demographics on sentiment dataset labeling.Proceedings of the ACM on Human-
Computer Interaction, 6(CSCW2):1–22, 2022.11

===== PAGE 12 =====
[17] Tuan Dinh, Jinman Zhao, Samson Tan, Renato Negrinho, Leonard Lausen, Sheng Zha, and George
Karypis. Large language models of code fail at completing code with potential bugs. InAdvances in
Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2023), 2023.
[18] Alexey Dosovitskiy, Lucas Beyer, Alexander Kolesnikov, Dirk Weissenborn, Xiaohua Zhai, Thomas
Unterthiner, Mostafa Dehghani, Matthias Minderer, Georg Heigold, Sylvain Gelly, Jakob Uszkoreit,
and Neil Houlsby. An image is worth 16x16 words: Transformers for image recognition at scale.
CoRR, abs/2010.11929, 2020.
[19] Kawin Ethayarajh. How contextual are contextualized word representations? comparing the geometry
of bert, elmo, and gpt-2 embeddings. InProceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods
in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language
Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), pages 55–65, 2019.
[20] Adrian Garrett Gabriel, Alaa Alameer Ahmad, and Shankar Kumar Jeyakumar. Advancing agentic
systems: Dynamic task decomposition, tool integration and evaluation using novel metrics and dataset.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.22457, 2024.
[21] Guoqiang Gong, Jiaxing Wang, Jin Xu, Deping Xiang, Zicheng Zhang, Leqi Shen, Yifeng Zhang,
JunhuaShu JunhuaShu, ZhaolongXing ZhaolongXing, Zhen Chen, et al. Beyond logits: Aligning
feature dynamics for effective knowledge distillation. InProceedings of the 63rd Annual Meeting of
the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 23067–23077, 2025.
[22] Linyuan Gong, Di He, Zhuohan Li, Tao Qin, Liwei Wang, and Tieyan Liu. Efficient training of bert by
progressively stacking. InInternational conference on machine learning, pages 2337–2346. PMLR,
2019.
[23] Albert Gu and Tri Dao. Mamba: Linear-time sequence modeling with selective state spaces.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2312.00752, 2023.
[24] Yuxian Gu, Li Dong, Furu Wei, and Minlie Huang. MiniLLM: Knowledge distillation of large lan-
guage models. InThe Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations, 2024.
[25] Arnav Gudibande, Eric Wallace, Charlie Snell, Xinyang Geng, Hao Liu, Pieter Abbeel, Sergey Levine,
and Dawn Song. The false promise of imitating proprietary llms.arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.15717,
2023.
[26] Paul Hagemann, Sophie Mildenberger, Lars Ruthotto, Gabriele Steidl, and Nicole Tianjiao Yang. Mul-
tilevel diffusion: Infinite dimensional score-based diffusion models for image generation.SIAM Jour-
nal on Mathematics of Data Science, 7(3):1337–1366, 2025.
[27] Geoffrey Hinton, Oriol Vinyals, and Jeff Dean. Distilling the knowledge in a neural network.arXiv
preprint arXiv:1503.02531, 2015.
[28] Or Honovich, Thomas Scialom, Omer Levy, and Timo Schick. Unnatural instructions: Tuning lan-
guage models with (almost) no human labor. InProceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Asso-
ciation for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 14409–14428, 2023.
[29] Aaron Hurst, Adam Lerer, Adam P Goucher, Adam Perelman, Aditya Ramesh, Aidan Clark, AJ
Ostrow, Akila Welihinda, Alan Hayes, Alec Radford, et al. Gpt-4o system card.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.21276, 2024.
[30] Ferenc Husz ´ar. How (not) to train your generative model: Scheduled sampling, likelihood, adversary?
arXiv preprint arXiv:1511.05101, 2015.
[31] Harold Jeffreys.Theory of Probability. Oxford University Press, second edition, 1948.
[32] Albert Q. Jiang, Alexandre Sablayrolles, Antoine Roux, Arthur Mensch, Blanche Savary, Chris Bam-
ford, Devendra Singh Chaplot, Diego de las Casas, Emma Bou Hanna, Florian Bressand, Gianna
12

===== PAGE 13 =====
Lengyel, Guillaume Bour, Guillaume Lample, L ´elio Renard Lavaud, Lucile Saulnier, Marie-Anne
Lachaux, Pierre Stock, Sandeep Subramanian, Sophia Yang, Szymon Antoniak, Teven Le Scao,
Th´eophile Gervet, Thibaut Lavril, Thomas Wang, Timoth ´ee Lacroix, and William El Sayed. Mix-
tral of Experts, 2024.
[33] Xiaoqi Jiao, Huating Chang, Yichun Yin, Lifeng Shang, Xin Jiang, Xiao Chen, Linlin Li, Fang Wang,
and Qun Liu. Improving task-agnostic bert distillation with layer mapping search.Neurocomputing,
461:194–203, 2021.
[34] Carlos E. Jimenez, John Yang, Alexander Wettig, Shunyu Yao, Kexin Pei, Ofir Press, and Karthik
Narasimhan. SWE-bench: Can language models resolve real-world github issues? InInternational
Conference on Learning Representations, 2024.
[35] Uthman Jinadu and Yi Ding. Noise correction on subjective datasets. InProceedings of the 62nd
Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages
5385–5395, 2024.
[36] Angelos Katharopoulos, Apoorv Vyas, Nikolaos Pappas, and Franc ¸ois Fleuret. Transformers are rnns:
Fast autoregressive transformers with linear attention. InInternational conference on machine learn-
ing, pages 5156–5165. PMLR, 2020.
[37] Hongyu Ke, Jack Morris, Yongkang Liu, Satoshi Kitai, Kentaro Oguchi, Yi Ding, and Haoxin Wang.
Tinybev: Compact temporal fusion for multi-view 3d perception. InProceedings of the Tenth
ACM/IEEE Symposium on Edge Computing, pages 1–6, 2025.
[38] Hongyu Ke, Jack Morris, Kentaro Oguchi, Xiaofei Cao, Yongkang Liu, Haoxin Wang, and Yi Ding.
Mambev: Enabling state space models to learn birds-eye-view representations. InThe Thirteenth
International Conference on Learning Representations, 2025.
[39] Yoon Kim and Alexander M Rush. Sequence-level knowledge distillation. InProceedings of the 2016
conference on empirical methods in natural language processing, pages 1317–1327, 2016.
[40] Kimi Team. Kimi K2: Open Agentic Intelligence, 2025.
[41] Jongwoo Ko, Tianyi Chen, Sungnyun Kim, Tianyu Ding, Luming Liang, Ilya Zharkov, and Se-Young
Yun. Distillm-2: A contrastive approach boosts the distillation of llms. InForty-second International
Conference on Machine Learning, 2025.
[42] Jongwoo Ko et al. Efficient one-shot compression via low-rank local distillation. InProceedings of
the 2025 Conference of the Nations of the Americas Chapter of the Association for Computational
Linguistics. Association for Computational Linguistics, 2025.
[43] Jongwoo Ko, Sungnyun Kim, Tianyi Chen, and Se-Young Yun. Distillm: Towards streamlined dis-
tillation for large language models. InInternational Conference on Machine Learning, pages 24872–
24895. PMLR, 2024.
[44] Taku Kudo and John Richardson. SentencePiece: A simple and language independent subword tok-
enizer and detokenizer for neural text processing. InProceedings of the 2018 Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing: System Demonstrations, pages 66–71, Brussels, Belgium,
2018. Association for Computational Linguistics.
[45] Thibault Le Sellier De Chezelles, Maxime Gasse, Alexandre Drouin, Massimo Caccia, L ´eo Boisvert,
Megh Thakkar, Tom Marty, Rim Assouel, Sahar Omidi Shayegan, Lawrence Keunho Jang, Xing Han
L`u, Ori Yoran, Dehan Kong, Frank F. Xu, Siva Reddy, Quentin Cappart, Graham Neubig, Ruslan
Salakhutdinov, Nicolas Chapados, and Alexandre Lacoste. The BrowserGym Ecosystem for Web
Agent Research.Transactions on Machine Learning Research, 2025.
[46] Seung Hyun Lee, Dae Ha Kim, and Byung Cheol Song. Self-supervised knowledge distillation using
singular value decomposition. InProceedings of the European Conference on Computer Vision, 2018.13

===== PAGE 14 =====
[47] Jia Li, Ziling Chen, Xiaolong Wu, Lu Wang, Beibei Wang, and Lei Zhang. Neural super-resolution
for real-time rendering with radiance demodulation. InProceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pages 4357–4367, 2024.
[48] Chin-Yew Lin. Rouge: A package for automatic evaluation of summaries. InText summarization
branches out, pages 74–81, 2004.
[49] Yong Liu, Jinshan Pan, Yinchuan Li, Qingji Dong, Chao Zhu, Yu Guo, and Fei Wang. Ultravsr:
Achieving ultra-realistic video super-resolution with efficient one-step diffusion space.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2505.19958, 2025.
[50] Antoine Mercier, Ruan Erasmus, Yashesh Savani, Manik Dhingra, Fatih Porikli, and Guillaume Berger.
Efficient neural supersampling on a novel gaming dataset. InProceedings of the IEEE/CVF Interna-
tional Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV), pages 296–306, 2023.
[51] Sazia Mim, Jack Morris, Manish Dhakal, Yanming Xiu, Maria Gorlatova, and Yi Ding. Can a uni-
modal language agent provide preferences to tune a multimodal vision-language model? InInterna-
tional Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing & Asia-Pacific Chapter of the Association
for Computational Linguistics 2025, 2025.
[52] Arsha Nagrani, Shan Yang, Anurag Arnab, Aren Jansen, Cordelia Schmid, and Chen Sun. Attention
bottlenecks for multimodal fusion.Advances in neural information processing systems, 34:14200–
14213, 2021.
[53] Kento Nishi, Yi Ding, Alex Rich, and Tobias Hollerer. Augmentation strategies for learning with noisy
labels. InProceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition,
pages 8022–8031, 2021.
[54] nostalgebraist. Interpreting gpt: The logit lens.https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/
AcKRB8wDpdaN6v6ru/interpreting-gpt-the-logit-lens, Aug. 2020. LessWrong
blog post.
[55] Long Ouyang, Jeffrey Wu, Xu Jiang, Diogo Almeida, Carroll Wainwright, Pamela Mishkin, Chong
Zhang, Sandhini Agarwal, Katarina Slama, Alex Ray, et al. Training language models to follow
instructions with human feedback.Advances in neural information processing systems, 35:27730–
27744, 2022.
[56] Jeongjin Park, Nicole Yang, and Nisha Chandramoorthy. When are dynamical systems learned from
time series data statistically accurate?Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 37:43975–
44008, 2024.
[57] Se Jin Park, Julian Salazar, Aren Jansen, Keisuke Kinoshita, Yong Man Ro, and RJ Skerry-Ryan.
Long-form speech generation with spoken language models. InProceedings of the 42nd International
Conference on Machine Learning (ICML), 2025.
[58] Bo Peng, Eric Alcaide, Quentin Anthony, Alon Albalak, Samuel Arcadinho, Stella Biderman, Huanqi
Cao, Xin Cheng, Michael Chung, Matteo Grella, et al. Rwkv: Reinventing rnns for the transformer
era.arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.13048, 2023.
[59] Qwen Team. Qwen3 Technical Report, 2025.
[60] Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych. Sentence-bert: Sentence embeddings using siamese bert-networks.
InProceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and
the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), pages
3982–3992, 2019.
[61] Adriana Romero, Nicolas Ballas, Samira Ebrahimi Kahou, Antoine Chassang, Carlo Gatta, and Yoshua
Bengio. Fitnets: Hints for thin deep nets.arXiv preprint arXiv:1412.6550, 2014.
14

===== PAGE 15 =====
[62] Victor Sanh, Lysandre Debut, Julien Chaumond, and Thomas Wolf. Distilbert, a distilled version of
bert: smaller, faster, cheaper and lighter.arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.01108, 2019.
[63] Noah Shinn, Federico Cassano, Ashwin Gopinath, Karthik Narasimhan, and Shunyu Yao. Reflexion:
Language agents with verbal reinforcement learning. InAdvances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, volume 36, 2023.
[64] Aliaksandr Siarohin, St ´ephane Lathuili`ere, Sergey Tulyakov, Elisa Ricci, and Nicu Sebe. First order
motion model for image animation. InAdvances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS),
volume 32, 2019.
[65] Hongjin Su, Shuyang Jiang, Yuhang Lai, Haoyuan Wu, Boao Shi, Che Liu, Qian Liu, and Tao Yu.
EvoR: Evolving retrieval for code generation. In Yaser Al-Onaizan, Mohit Bansal, and Yun-Nung
Chen, editors,Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2024, pages 2538–
2554, Miami, Florida, USA, Nov. 2024. Association for Computational Linguistics.
[66] Siqi Sun, Yu Cheng, Zhe Gan, and Jingjing Liu. Patient knowledge distillation for bert model compres-
sion. InProceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing
and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), pages
4323–4332, 2019.
[67] Rohan Taori, Ishaan Gulrajani, Tianyi Zhang, Yann Dubois, Xuechen Li, Carlos Guestrin, Percy Liang,
and Tatsunori B Hashimoto. Stanford alpaca: An instruction-following llama model, 2023.
[68] Iulia Turc, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. Well-read students learn better:
On the importance of pre-training compact models. InProceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics. Association for Computational Linguistics, 2020.
[69] Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez, Łukasz
Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. Attention is all you need.Advances in neural information processing
systems, 30, 2017.
[70] Guanzhi Wang, Yuqi Xie, Yunfan Jiang, Ajay Mandlekar, Chaowei Xiao, Yuke Zhu, Linxi Fan, and
Anima Anandkumar. V oyager: An open-ended embodied agent with large language models.Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS), 2023.
[71] Wenhui Wang, Furu Wei, Li Dong, Hangbo Bao, Nan Yang, and Ming Zhou. MiniLM: Deep self-
attention distillation for task-agnostic compression of pre-trained transformers. InAdvances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 2020.
[72] Xinpeng Wang, Leonie Weissweiler, Hinrich Sch ¨utze, and Barbara Plank. How to distill your BERT:
An empirical study on the impact of weight initialisation and distillation objectives. InProceedings
of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, Volume 2: Short Papers.
Association for Computational Linguistics, 2023.
[73] Yizhong Wang, Yeganeh Kordi, Swaroop Mishra, Alisa Liu, Noah A Smith, Daniel Khashabi, and
Hannaneh Hajishirzi. Self-instruct: Aligning language models with self-generated instructions. In
Proceedings of the 61st annual meeting of the association for computational linguistics (volume 1:
long papers), pages 13484–13508, 2023.
[74] Yizhong Wang, Swaroop Mishra, Pegah Alipoormolabashi, Yeganeh Kordi, Amirreza Mirzaei,
Atharva Naik, Arjun Ashok, Arut Selvan Dhanasekaran, Anjana Arunkumar, David Stap, et al. Super-
naturalinstructions: Generalization via declarative instructions on 1600+ nlp tasks. InEMNLP, 2022.
[75] Yuxiang Wei, Zhe Wang, Jiawei Liu, Yifeng Ding, and Lingming Zhang. Magicoder: Source code is
all you need. InForty-first International Conference on Machine Learning, 2024.
15

===== PAGE 16 =====
[76] Yuqiao Wen, Zichao Li, Wenyu Du, and Lili Mou. f-divergence minimization for sequence-level
knowledge distillation. InProceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 10817–10834, 2023.
[77] Taiqiang Wu, Chaofan Tao, Jiahao Wang, Runming Yang, Zhe Zhao, and Ngai Wong. Rethink-
ing kullback-leibler divergence in knowledge distillation for large language models.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2404.02657, 2024.
[78] Mengzhou Xia, Zexuan Zhong, and Danqi Chen. Structured pruning learns compact and accurate
models. InProceedings of the 60th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics.
Association for Computational Linguistics, 2022.
[79] Tianbao Xie, Danyang Zhang, Jixuan Chen, Xiaochuan Li, Siheng Zhao, Ruisheng Cao, Toh Jing Hua,
Zhoujun Cheng, Dongchan Shin, Fangyu Lei, Yitao Liu, Yitao Xu, Shuyan Zhou, Silvio Savarese,
Caiming Xiong, Victor Zhong, and Tao Yu. OSWorld: Benchmarking multimodal agents for open-
ended tasks in real computer environments. InAdvances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
volume 37, 2024.
[80] Yiran Xu, Taesung Park, Richard Zhang, Yang Zhou, Eli Shechtman, Feng Liu, Jia-Bin Huang, and
Difan Liu. Videogigagan: Towards detail-rich video super-resolution. InProceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pages 2139–2149, 2025.
[81] Nicole Tianjiao Yang. Pathwise learning of stochastic dynamical systems with partial observations.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.21860, 2025.
[82] Nicole Tianjiao Yang and Tomoyuki Ichiba. Finding the nonnegative minimal solutions of cauchy pdes
in a volatility-stabilized market.SIAM Journal on Financial Mathematics, 16(4):SC76–SC87, 2025.
[83] Junho Yim, Donggyu Joo, Jihoon Bae, and Junmo Kim. A gift from knowledge distillation: Fast
optimization, network minimization and transfer learning. InProceedings of the IEEE Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2017.
[84] Xiao Yu, Baolin Peng, Vineeth Vajipey, Hao Cheng, Michel Galley, Jianfeng Gao, and Zhou Yu.
Exact: Teaching ai agents to explore with reflective-mcts and exploratory learning. InInternational
Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), 2025.
[85] Sergey Zagoruyko and Nikos Komodakis. Paying more attention to attention: Improving the perfor-
mance of convolutional neural networks via attention transfer. InInternational Conference on Learning
Representations, 2017.
[86] Chi Zhang, Zhao Yang, Jiaxuan Liu, Yucheng Han, Xin Chen, Zebiao Huang, Bin Fu, and Gang Yu.
Appagent: Multimodal agents as smartphone users. InProceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2024.
[87] Lianmin Zheng, Wei-Lin Chiang, Ying Sheng, Siyuan Zhuang, Zhanghao Wu, Yonghao Zhuang, Zi
Lin, Zhuohan Li, Dacheng Li, Eric Xing, et al. Judging llm-as-a-judge with mt-bench and chatbot
arena.Advances in neural information processing systems, 36:46595–46623, 2023.
[88] Shangchen Zhou, Peiqing Yang, Jianyi Wang, Yihang Luo, and Chen Change Loy. Upscale-a-video:
Temporal-consistent diffusion model for real-world video super-resolution. InProceedings of the
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pages 2535–2545, 2024.
[89] Tianyi Zhu, Dongwei Ren, Qilong Wang, Xiaohe Wu, and Wangmeng Zuo. Generative inbetweening
through frame-wise conditions-driven video generation. InProceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pages 27968–27978, 2025.
[90] Brianna Zitkovich, Tianhe Yu, Sichun Xu, Peng Xu, Ted Xiao, Fei Xia, Jialin Wu, Paul Wohlhart,
Stefan Welker, Ayzaan Wahid, et al. Rt-2: Vision-language-action models transfer web knowledge to
robotic control. InConference on Robot Learning, pages 2165–2183. PMLR, 2023.1

===== PAGE 17 =====
Facilities, Equipment, and Other Resources
The proposed project will leverage established computational and collaborative resources at Auburn Uni-
versity as well as shared infrastructure provided through existing interdisciplinary research centers. These
resources are sufficient to support the technical and dissemination components of the proposed research. Ex-
isting collaborative mechanisms between the participating investigators, including joint research meetings
and co-mentored students, will facilitate efficient coordination across sites. These resources are sufficient to
support the proposed research activities without reliance on additional external facilities.
The PIs and all participating personnel will have full access to resources provided by the Department
of Computer Science and Software Engineering’s Assistive Intelligence Lab directed by PI Ding at Auburn
University. Auburn University is designated as a National Security Agency (NSA) and Department of
Homeland Security (DHS) Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber Research (CAE-R), Cyber Operations
(CAE-CO), and Cyber Defense (CAE-CD). These designations reflect strengths in cybersecurity research
and education and provide an established environment for interdisciplinary collaboration, graduate training,
and dissemination of research outputs. The project will draw on these capabilities to support research
execution and integration of results into graduate curricula and research training activities.
Assistive Intelligence Lab:
The Assistive Intelligence Lab focuses on the development of novel AI algorithms that can better understand
human behaviors to facilitate naturalistic human-AI integration. The lab has approximately 8 members in-
cluding PhD, MS, Undergraduate, and visitors. Auburn’s CSSE department provides space and research
labs for its faculty and graduate students. the Assistive Intelligence Lab occupies approximately 500 sq ft
in addition to shared meeting room and facilities spaces. The CSSE department has also public access com-
puter labs and special purpose laboratories for research. Large conference rooms are available to practice
presentations and to hold meetings. Other smaller meeting rooms are also available for collaboration and
discussions. High-speed wired and wireless network access is available in all areas. The CSSE department
also has a dedicated server room for use by its faculty.
Equipment:The PI’s lab has four dedicated servers are on-site which has 8xNvidia RTX 4090, 4x RTX
5090, 4x RTX PRO 6000. One additional server with 6x RTX PRO 6000 cards for development and fine
tuning of deep learning models is in the department’s server room. These servers are connected to 28TB of
network attached storage over a 10Gbps network. Existing students also have access to multiple laptops and
2 workstations. Access to equipment will be provided via VPN.
Alabama Supercomputer Authority (ASA):ASA provides High Performance Computing (HPC) services
at no cost to faculty, staff and enrolled students of public schools, colleges, and universities in Alabama.
This allows universities to create a trained workforce with the skills needed for jobs in engineering, science,
mathematics, aerospace and medical research fields. Dr. Ding and his students have been provided access
to these resources. The HPC system contains 5,056 x86-64 Proc, Shared/Distributed Memory Architecture,
InfiniBand high speed/low latency network, 512GB-4TB memory per node, 33 TB total memory, 1.4 PB
shared storage via Panasas, A100 and H100 GPUs.
Office:All faculty members have an office, and there is adequate space to host additional graduate research
assistants on this project.
Other Resources:Departments provides the space and basic networking services to carry out the experi-
ments, and secretarial and administrative support as well as general-purpose office equipment, such as fax,
printers, and photocopiers.
2
